so overcoming an addictive behavior
overcoming sort of a toxic behavior
is not about trying to get rid of the
bad it's actually about getting rid of
the good
it's about giving up what this thing
does for you
and that starts with actually like you
know it starts with insight
and if you guys are curious the you know
i had to change tax for a second but the
the goal
of today's interview was insight not
change
in insight and awareness precedes change
so pushing someone to change when
they're not ready to change is never
going to work
hello not a whole lot what's up with you
a whole lot how are you congratulations
on everything that you're doing you guys
are doing insane
oh yeah thank you very much it's been um
hold on a second there we go
um thank you so much uh
how are you i'm doing really good
i'm staying busy um
i um can you hold on drinking water
yeah hold on just one second i want to
make sure that i'm not screwing
something up
he can text me if he needs something
because he just canceled the call so i
assumed that i fixed it
um sometimes i do that on my own and i
don't need someone's help to fix things
that guy but oftentimes i do need
people's help
me too so what have what uh have you
been maya
i've been really good um i yeah i'm just
i'm very busy
but it's good busy so it's fine
what's the difference between good busy
and bad busy
i'm busy with things that i want to do
versus
things that i don't want to be doing um
i was i was always bad busy in college
and
since then i've been good busy
so i guess that's good um and what have
you been up to recently
uh well i've recently founded this
non-profit i talked to
kruthie about it a little bit um but
yeah we uh i bought this property and
have been developing it
to bring animals onto there we have 12
ambassadors now
so doing a lot of husbandry doing some
content curation
education program curation and just
there's a lot of stuff that goes into
that that i'm learning about so
wow that's amazing can you tell me more
about that
yeah um so alves is a non-profit
uh exotic animal sanctuary and virtual
education
center in texas i wrote up wrote out the
business plan in like
uh december chat something like that
like december and it was a three-year
plan but it's more like a three-month
plan
with how fast it's been going uh i
bought a property it's about 15 acres in
austin and
um went and picked up ambassadors from
california
in april and
we've been making moves since then
so the idea is rescuing exotic animals
that are non-releasable
and then using them for education
programs uh teaching people about
conservation using those ambassadors
animal ambassadors and then also having
content creators come to my facility to
meet those animals as well
um and to learn about them and learn
about conservation
complex audiences all that jazz oh
that's awesome
thank you yeah i'm really proud of it
when you say ambassador are we referring
to
an animal or a person an animal i see
um so yeah an ambassador is just an
animal in captivity that
is used in education and is meant to
represent their wild counterpart
i see an ambassador for their species
got it
and and what kind of ambassadors do you
guys have so far
we have four parrots two chinchillas a
snake a bullfrog an emu
and two donkeys and a chicken
that's awesome yeah yeah
and jenkins become a fan favorite she's
a lot of fun
and and so how who i mean who takes care
of the animals
or the ambassadors sorry uh me and then
ella i have an
on-site animal care coordinator so she
lives there and and she does five days a
week
oh wow care of them and then i'm out
there every day as well so
there's just two of us right now doing
something making the world a better
place
yeah that is absolutely amazing maya
yeah it's been really fun um i
understand that that
ambassadors whether they be you know
animals or humans
tend to be quite expensive to take care
of
like they have a lot of costs associated
with them for sure
yeah we just did uh initial vet
appointments for those four pairs
nothing wrong with them but
just to get like a baseline and to get a
really thorough blood panel done
and all that is like two grand for for
the four of them
um so yeah wow yeah it's expensive
the the general upkeep though is not so
bad like our reptiles
one of our snake eats once every other
week you know it's it's really not that
expensive but
the the initial setup and and the
initial vet stuff is expensive my emu is
expensive because she keeps eating metal
um she's gotten two endoscopies in the
past
uh few months
wow she ate this ring wait this ring
had how did you get it back
endoscopy oh so you guys went in from
the mouth and pulled it out
yeah and then she ate a few screws and a
couple other things
a few months later which i don't even
know where she found them
um in dosby number two but got them all
out
so she's expensive
have you asked her considered asking her
why she keeps eating metal
yeah she just says she likes it okay
you know it's interesting because
there's actually i've i've worked with
with humans
who eat things that they're not supposed
to yeah well so for
i've never had a bird that's so bad
about that like i had the
i had the my ring on the ground um
because i just did not expect her to
swallow it at the time she was like
her body was like this big she's a chick
um so
watching her swallow the emu i didn't
even think it hurt the ring i didn't
even think it would fit in her mouth
um emu's and a lot of other birds
they'll eat pebbles and small rocks to
aid in digestion
the only thing i can think is that with
a combination of her being attracted to
shiny things
because she's a bird and then i don't
but i also
like i've worked with crows and other
corvids and stuff like that that love
shiny things but they would never
swallow it i really don't know it's it's
bizarre to me she's the first emu that
i've worked from
baby onwards um so i'm
i've learned that tendency the hard way
yeah wow i don't think you can find this
stuff in a book somewhere it's like
you know guide to emu care be careful
because they will eat
nails and small pieces of jewelry there
is
the only article i could find when i was
freaking out the first time she ate the
ring was
an emu in the uk that ate a pair of
diamond earrings or something
um and they couldn't get them out uh so
insurance got her a new pair of earrings
which is sweet and then
the emu passed them later so now she has
both i don't know if she wears the ones
that the emu passed but
i imagine that they they have a certain
you know
resale value to them yeah oh i'm sure
they do
that was big news yeah wow
interesting yeah yeah so
wow so you've been busy yes anything
sort of yeah so of you are you doing
like interviews throughout this month
is that just okay sweet nice
cool stuff why do you ask i'm just
wondering
because your team reached out to me said
that's the first time i've got i've
heard from you guys in that capacity so
i was like oh i bet they're doing
a bunch of people or talking to a bunch
of people yeah so i think actually our
usual stream
stuff is uh interviews is the backbone
of what we do you know because we try to
um
have so i've had so many individual
conversations that
cover the same thing the whole reason we
started streaming to begin with is to
sort of
uh you know share one person's
conversation with a bunch of people
specifically for the purpose because i
seem to have the same conversations over
and over and over again and the same
themes
or principles tend to pop up over and
over and over again
this has to be unique in terms of
conversations i've had on stream because
i haven't talked about ingesting things
but i have worked with patients who will
do things like ingest razor blades and
there you have
good stuff um you know and i try to ask
them why they do it and
that turns turns out to be an
interesting conversation
um that's a lot yeah i don't think she
does it for those reasons i think she's
just a little dank
but what does that mean a little dank a
little like
bit you know it's just not very bright
oh okay
well you know the emote feels dank man
have you seen that did you chat use that
yeah so i think i'm sure i've seen it i
don't know exactly what da i didn't know
that dank was not very bright i thought
it was like
a little bit you know not
dirty but it's like it's dank you know
it's like not clean it may be used like
that in other places or maybe i'm
thinking rank i don't know
um there's dank when i was in college
people would say dank is like that sick
like that's
dank or they would like sick isn't it
they would say yeah good sick
and they would say that like weed is
dank and that meant it was good
but since i've been on twitch it's like
feels dank man so it's like uh
i don't know just like little kid like
eating crayons
yeah it's kind of dank so the last time
i was a student
when someone is like that's sick like
that person is sick we would transfer
them to the icu
you know so different things yeah so but
dank means so dank is no longer means
sick it means
what well on twitch it means
kind of dumb kind of got it i think
other people still use it as like
cool well if if it means something on
twitch isn't that truly what it means
no i i don't know because it's it's so
interesting to see that
you know the the like i have you know
nieces and nephews that are normal
people
and to to realize that i actually speak
their lingo because they seem to be like
catching up to us
oh there you go yeah right so like i
think like like
salty is from gaming right i have no
idea
i'm not a gamer right and and then their
twitch
maybe i don't know i think it's a gaming
thing and then like other
you know regular people started using it
and i was like oh i actually understand
the lingo now there you go yeah i don't
know any
well i guess i do know some gamer lingo
because i'm on twitch but yeah
yeah um so my anything gamer
anything in particular you want to talk
about today or anything that i can help
you with
um yeah i
well stress but again it's kind of like
good stress because it's stuff that i
want to be doing so it's not like i want
to reduce
my workload um i have an inability to
relax
which has become kind of a toxic thing
for me
not recently it's always been like that
um okay not always but
since high school um so
yeah that's annoying that's the only
thing i can think of right now
i think can you tell me about your
inability to relax
yeah um i have a it is not an
actual term i've coined it in my head
just toxic
productivity i i always feel like i need
to be doing something
and if i'm not doing something i just
feel a lot of guilt i think that's
i think a lot of people deal with that
but
like a recent thing is i'll try to sit
on the balcony to relax
or just to like chill out um and the
only
way that i can allow myself to do that
is if i have like a really tall glass of
water and i tell myself that
if i'm drinking the whole glass of water
while i'm sitting here it's fine because
that's a productive thing to do but i
can't just sit there
does that make sense yeah absolutely
uh-huh so that
and then i've only i've recently started
using not recently i've been using
tick-tock for a while but
um like i'll scroll through tick-tocks
and that's kind of relaxing but the only
reason i allow myself to do that without
feeling bad is because
the videos that i like i show on stream
so it's like
you can justify it because it can be
used for work
right right yes driving too i can't
listen to music in the car anymore
because i don't feel like it's
productive use of my time i
only listen to audiobooks even if i
don't really want to listen to an
audiobook
i like i listen to audiobooks
because i feel like i'm learning
something yeah
you know toxic productivity is a huge
issue um
and and it's funny because we've uh we
recently started
like a an interesting pilot at healthy
gamer because
you know a lot of times we'll have
people who
so our community is actually quite
diverse
and what we actually discovered recently
not recently but what we've sort of
haven't addressed is that there are a
lot of people who are very productive in
our community
and so we actually sorry yeah diverse in
terms of like age
range or demographics so many things
okay so we started out when i started
streaming
you know and probably had like less than
10 000 followers it was like 95
male 5 sure female
um and now we're like 70 30 or even 65
i think is what our audience is uh our
age range has also recently expanded to
include like parents so like
you know there will be we have a just
wrapped up a parent pilot where we had
like
you know 50 year old 60 year olds who
are like
that's cool trying to we're trying to
explain to them you know
how to communicate with their kids and
stuff like that
and i think the other thing that that
we've started working on is sort of like
high performance so there are a lot of
people
you know on twitch or in our audience in
our community who are
software developers you know executives
things like that
and you know professional uh
you know professional athletes of
various kinds
and so we started like actually running
groups for them
and seeing if we can help them and i
think this toxic productivity actually
comes up there a lot
where people are you know i think toxic
productivity is a good phrase
um okay sweet i thought i made it up but
i'm glad to hear that i know i mean i i
think it's a
it's a yeah i you know so let me ask you
something when you say you
allow yourself to sit on the balcony
so like let's just look at that
construction for a second okay
who is the myself and who is doing the
allowing
um
[Music]
i don't know how to answer that question
do you understand like
yeah are we talking like a future
me and like my present self or something
i don't i don't know well yeah
it's a weird question right because so
you use the phrase i allow myself to sit
on the balcony
sure so like the reward is maya gets to
sit on the balcony
and it's almost like there's a child and
there's a parent in that
sentence right who's doing the allowing
and who's getting this it's like it's i
mean it's almost like a parent-child
kind of thing where it's like
mom can i sit on the balcony it's like
only if you drink a glass of water
because
that's being productive and you don't
have time to just sit on the balcony and
do nothing
that's actually that's interesting i
just made me think of
i uh i do kind of have that dichotomy
like
inside of because i am 22. you know i
just graduated college
um i still like want to go to bars and
drink and
stay up until you know two three
whatever with friends just
drinking and whatever but i also uh am
now i also now run a non-profit
so there's there's two very different
people
that like exist within myself so it's
probably an argument between the two
there's a part of me that wants to be
not productive and all of my peers the
people that i live with and and my
friends in texas as well are all
streamers
so they pretty much do whatever they
want you know
they don't have many responsibilities
besides eating sleeping and streaming
um and sometimes i wish i lived like
that you know sometimes i wish i could
just chill and
do whatever and um but that's just like
not the case
for me so yeah it's it's probably
between the i don't know if that makes
sense i think it makes a lot of sense
okay so i i think you see that a lot of
your social circle
can do this thing that's kind of like
you know i i do think it's actually
tends to be a little bit more
challenging for them because i think
like you
i imagine that they they don't just get
to have fun because fun
starts to become content and so they're
in the business of having fun
which sometimes changes how fun it is
um but i can definitely see that like
you're struggling with some kind of work
life
balance sort of things
is that fair to say yeah so why is it
important for you to listen to
audiobooks instead of music
i just have an endless need to learn
things which is great
um but it's too much you know like
sometimes i like i would like to just
chill and listen to music
but it's like why would i be listening
to music if i could be listening to and
i i don't listen to any fiction
audiobooks either it's always
non-fiction or it's like a survival
audiobook or it's like
something honestly just boring like
stuff that i don't really feel like i
want to know but i'll listen to
audiobooks on like
i listen to one on string theory i don't
[ __ ] care about string theory
you know like i was an ag major um but i
just feel like i
should know more i don't know i want to
know more about different uh
about different things and if i'm
driving and not learning i feel like
it's not a productive use of my time
yeah so we're gonna highlight one word
and i want you to pay attention for this
word should you should
know more where does
help me understand that why should you
know more
we go all the way back to our
conversation i you have so many
conversations but the last time we
talked we talked about uh where i grew
up so i grew up in the silicon valley
which is a very productive very high
achieving
location for schools this has some of
the best schools in the nation
and also some of the highest suicide
rates in the nation and they're
absolutely related
uh so i was not low achieving
in school i mean i graduated with uh
like a
well i graduated with a 4.2 weighted but
i
was not smart in uh school or i wasn't
like one of the smart ones
i just did fine um so
and like in elementary school you get
placed in advanced math classes or
normal math classes i was never in
advanced math classes
so it probably comes from there um just
like should be doing more
should uh should know more should be
higher achieving should be going to the
school should be doing this but
whatever that thanks for reminding me
that had slipped my mind yeah
no that's fine yeah of course um and
thank you for
drawing that connection because i i you
know sounds like something sunk in
yeah that makes sense and yeah so let's
let's
so it sounds like last time we sort of
got into
where the should comes from thank you so
much for refreshing my memory
and so if i'm hearing you correctly you
kind of grew up in a particular
environment where
comparison was important achievement was
important standards were high
big shoes to fill for sure and
you were not one of the chosen ones yeah
and so you have to work really hard to
enter the chosen one category
yeah i guess so um
what do you think about that um
i mean i'm doing fine i'm pretty proud
of myself where i am today
um and i
my parents wanted me to go to cornell
and i'm glad that i didn't because
i loved it at kelp i went to cal poly
san luis obispo
which is uh not nearly as hard to get
into as cornell and it's not an ivy
but i was so much happier there than i
would have been you know if i went
there and or if i went to cornell so i'm
happy with that choice
um so it's fine i don't know
i mean it definitely has contributed to
to the things that i'm talking about
today but
i'm not like upset about it what has
contributed to
the things you're talking about today
the need to compete
and compare and all that
yeah so when you say it's contributed
can you help me understand
how your need to be better
has shaped your life
um
yeah okay well let's i might it might
get a little muddy
so growing up we also talked a lot about
my sister
um my sister's 18 months older um and
she was very very high achieving all
throughout elementary middle and high
school
and she went to an ivy she went to upenn
mechanical engineering
um whatever and so she did really really
well in school and did really well
playing soccer
and so people knew her for those things
people knew me
as like the animal girl in high school
because we grew up on a farm
um and i would like bring animals to her
soccer games and i
um was really really into horsemanship
so i spent a lot of time a lot of time
training horses and all that
and i think i felt that i had a niche
there and i needed to excel
in animal things and what i was
interested in
to have like my own identity that was on
the same level as the one that she had
um and i think that that stuck with me
since
middle school or high school whenever
that started is just like being the best
in my thing
um so so you had to get an a plus in
something
exactly and it wasn't going to be
mathematics so you chose horsemanship
right yeah [ __ ] mathematics i i never
yeah i was terrible at math i still am
yeah so you should go unschooled have
you thought about that do you know what
that is
no what is that oh my gosh matt has miss
kiff has this show
called schooled do you know the show are
you smarter than a fifth grader
no okay it's basically like
you go on and they ask you questions
that are kindergarten level questions
first grade second grade third grade
right and the point is maybe this isn't
fair the point is kind of to make the
contestants look dumb because it's like
you can't answer a third grade question
but just because you don't remember
those things you know
um but he has it and then you can get
subs depending on how high you go and
then if you win there's a ten thousand
dollar competition at the end but that
would be really interesting
for you to go on and and see if i'm
smarter than a fifth grader
yeah essentially well it goes all the
way up through high school
um but most people get out about eighth
grade ninth grade interesting
yeah i'll definitely think about it but
i i'm not so sure that i would be so
optimistic because
i have an almost four year old and an
almost six-year-old and i'm pretty sure
that
you know they would outperform me in
many ways yeah i would do it
my three-year-old my three-year-old
yesterday told me that i need to eat
with my mouth closed
so you know i can check yeah i
i don't really know how to feel about
that because
on the one hand it's like wow we're like
you know she's learning manners
and stuff and also she's
you know being i don't
yeah it's it's i don't know
my older one is a little bit of a tyrant
oh yeah yeah she she recently discovered
that there's a job called a director
oh boy and that the job of the director
is to tell other people what to do
so she was like wait their whole job is
to direct people
and i was like yes that's correct and
she's like
she's she's power hungry she has the
desire to lord over others
i like it um that's sweet but yeah i'll
definitely i'm i'm a huge fan of of
miss kiff and and so that sounds like
fun
yeah um guy is amazing he really is
he's really good at what he does yes
i remember trying to convince him of
that some some time ago
oh for sure um yeah he also seems to
have grown a lot in confidence i've
caught
a couple of clips and and stuff of him
and he seems to be really doing amazing
yeah he's doing well for himself he
feels he feels good about it
yeah um but kind of going back to you
and developing a niche in horsemanship
right uh so i'm hearing that
you know early on you sort of decided
that you were going to be the best at
something
and then i can imagine the should in
your head
pushed you is that
fair to say yeah how did you feel
studying when you said you were an ag
major i assume you mean agriculture
yes okay agricultural communication well
agricultural education and
communications
is my major how did you feel about
having that as your major
i thought it was sick um it is
pretty good it was like cool okay
it was a it's pretty small major um
and all of my friends and my sister are
either mechanical engineers software
engineers electrical engineers or
uh engineer
medicine wonderful yeah all of them
if you really want to be try hard you
can do electrical engineering double
major pre-med
yeah or biomass biomed biomed
engineering
actually yeah biomed from biomed
engineering pre-med
there you go you can win all of the
prizes
it's very good um
yeah so all my friends were in there my
dad i think
deep down my dad probably wanted me to
be an engineer but knew that i would
never go into engineering um
so i just looked for a major that i
actually wanted to do and i
only applied to two schools and it was
cal poly and colorado state
fort collins or ag communications or
equine science
cool course science and so i'm hearing
that you've grown into someone that you
can be proud of
yeah yeah i think so and you've
accomplished a lot
yeah when you compare yourself to your
friends where are you
you doing good yeah most of them are
still in school
because uh they're they're pre-med
um or they're getting masters or
whatever so
yeah and you have started a non-profit
and built something
yeah you're not just a student right
thank god sorry chad if you're in school
stay in school school's great i hate it
god i'm so glad i'm not in college
anymore
i didn't hate college but i'm happy to
not be
in academics so why do you have to
listen to audiobooks when you're in the
car
that's like an interesting question i
guess i'm picking the books that i'm
reading
or listening to um
i don't know so i don't know because i
like learning
i don't like doing assignments that are
or that i thought were pointless i had
the whole like
a very subtle like [ __ ] the system thing
in my head but
i'm sure you like learning i have no
doubt of that in my mind
but i don't think you listen to audio
books because you like learning
what do you think i think you listen to
audio because
books because you should be learning oh
that's true
maybe yeah so if i were to tell you have
you
read harry potter no
any interest no do you like fiction
i don't know i've never i've never read
fiction in my own time
oh for school i've read fiction okay
what do you think about the idea of
reading fiction um
this is like i wish i wanted to because
i know that it it
like can be important honestly my
my first reaction is that i think it's
like watching movies and tv shows that
are fiction and i feel like that's a
waste of time but it's even more of a
waste of time because it takes longer
nice yeah so but i know that that's like
if we're gonna waste time we're gonna be
efficient about it right
yes yeah if we're gonna why would i
spend eight hours reading a book when i
could watch two hours reading a movie
we're going to optimize
our departure to the book while you're
getting somewhere
yeah right so always optimizing very
common in people with toxic productivity
also not necessarily a bad thing so i
think this is where um
you know your tendency to optimize is
probably something that's a
personality trait that will serve you
well i think the main thing is for us to
explore how you can get
in control of it instead of it being in
control of you
so let me ask you a question what do you
what would you say to a friend of yours
if they said yeah the only time i'm
allowed to sit outside
is if i have a very tall glass of water
so i can be productive
i hate that test i use that i use that
test in my head all the time
um can you tell me about it um
well just like you use in your head all
the time
uh like the the friend test
like if your friend was saying the
things that you're saying you know about
yourself what would you say to your
friend that kind of thing
what do you hate about that test because
it always shows that i'm
too hard on myself or that i'm not doing
what i would tell a friend to do
which is not like it's not a bad thing
it's a good test that's that's
why i use it but it is like a
i don't know i don't know how to
describe it
no no no can can i just think for a
second
for sure
[Music]
there's something oddly recursive about
what you just said
okay so like it's almost like
you should be doing better at passing
that test
you see that's actually that's true it's
the same thing
yeah it's like
yeah you're right okay so but
yeah so so then let's forget about that
test i don't but i
you know why do you think you would
advocate some things for your friends
as opposed or what what makes you have a
different standard for yourself
than other people oh
um we'll go into the whole like imposter
[ __ ]
i i feel like i'm extremely lucky to be
in the position that i'm in
um and i am i got i got lucky by there
being a redditor in my chat
when i was a small streamer that posted
me on lsf and then i met ms and then
like it went from there right
and i feel a ton of pressure because
um i have the platform that i do and
there aren't a lot of people doing
conservation education on twitch
um i call it an untapped reservoir all
the time not just because of the
fundraising potential but because of the
audience that we're reaching
that is like from the people that i know
in conservation education just
notoriously hard to reach
and educate um so i feel like i have
this opportunity to teach so many people
things that they wouldn't be learning
otherwise and so i need to do a really
good job at it
and i need to do it fast before the
platform dies or before
i get canceled or before i get banned or
before you know whatever before i lose
the opportunity
so i feel like because the platform that
i have i have to do good with it
and not not waste it
okay so we're gonna note a couple of
things okay
one is the sand and the hourglasses
running out
mm-hmm is that how it feels to you
um yeah i mean it's not super severe
it's not like i'm like
what if i only have a year left like i
think i have a good you know
5 10 15 years with what i'm doing right
now
um but eventually i know that
you know it's a social platform like
it'll change
or die or whatever and um
it doesn't sound to me like you are
behaving in a way in which you have 15
years left
that's true i don't know i don't know if
i have 15 years on twitch
i don't know how long i'm going to be
streaming for um
elvis my non-profit i'm not dropping in
the next
10 years i need to do it fast
can you help me understand that
um
i guess it's just because i feel like i
have the opportunity now it's the same
reason that i do so many sponsors
i like feel like i have to bankroll
right now while i have sponsorship
opportunities um
[Music]
i don't know just because it's like
there i also need to make money
um because i put all of my money that
i've made through streaming into the
property that i
purchased for the nonprofit um and my
parents helped me with the down payment
so now i owe my parents money
um and you know i gotta pay a mortgage
and i have to pay for my horse and i
have to pay
for my backpack and for rent and food
and
all that um so
so this may sound kind of weird maya but
there's what you need to do
there's so i don't doubt that the time
to strike is now
and strike while the iron is hot does
that make sense like you're like
this is an opportunity i have to do this
now i can get behind that 100
and i'd say go for it at the same time
there's a difference between
now is the time to act and feeling like
now is the time to act
okay does that make any sense to you can
you elaborate on that
yeah so i think um you do a really good
job of piecing things together so i'm
gonna go
like a little bit more theoretical so
the feeling of desperation is a feeling
right so if i have an opportunity that's
only available now i can take advantage
of the opportunity but whether i feel
desperate the the feeling of desperation
may be completely appropriate
but it's still a feeling right yeah and
and what i'm hearing the need for is
some separation between
taking advantage of the oper opportunity
and sort of
feeling desperate that now is only going
to be the only chance that you get
right so do you feel
desperate um
yeah i think so i think it's primarily
financially driven right now though like
if there was a sponsor that i didn't
necessarily want to do
i would do it um if it was like a
significant amount of money because
i don't think that that same deal will
come in the next like six months
yeah i can understand that so i think
that there's the financial reality and
then there's like
the way that you feel about it which i
think gets that's
a lot of what leads to toxic
productivity does that make sense
yep can you explain it to us
how those two things could be related
maybe i'm the thing that's sticking in
my head right now is like
the that they're two separate things is
there's like a positive and and doing
what's in front of you and taking the
opportunity and then
um feeling desperate about it and doing
it because of that feeling of
desperation
right so one of those is the productive
part one of those is the toxic
part right right so so
beautifully explained by the way i well
thank you i disagree but
thank you you should have done a better
job is that what you mean to say
yeah um but yeah and i guess it makes
everything that i go
it's not everything that i do is toxic
but um
being as productive as i am feels toxic
because it's all
like i have to do it now because like i
have the opportunity now so it's not
like i'm doing it just because it's like
sitting there and like now's the time
it's like you have to do this now do
this this is
there and what happens if you don't do
it now
um i don't make enough money or i lose
viewership or alves
doesn't do as well as i want um and then
what happens
and then well lots of different things
if it's the money thing i don't get to
pay my parents back which is
not gonna happen um if it's the
what are the other things i said uh
alvarez doesn't do as well i
have like a i have a couple tests that i
run in my head for that as well one of
or for just like when i'm around the
non-profit and one of them is
i have a conservation podcast also that
i'm doing monthly now i was doing it
weekly
and there's a lot of people that come on
there that i really really admire and
respect for their research or their
you know their what they do in education
or whatever and so i have that list of
people and i think
if they were watching my content right
now or they were seeing what i was doing
with this non-profit would i be proud or
would i be embarrassed
um so i would be embarrassed if i didn't
do well without vas
and for my reputation in in the industry
um
and then and then i remember the other
thing i said
if i was embarrassed and i didn't do
well in the industry uh then i feel like
i would have to stop climbing the ladder
you would have to stop climbing the
ladder
well no maybe i just get knocked down if
you i don't know i i would like
i would just what you initially said
even if it doesn't
right so then yeah
you would have to stop climbing the
ladder like that's an interesting
statement
yeah i don't know i guess i'd go back to
being an intern or i would go do
something else
i think you'd get a b maybe
in your thing god forbid i'm gonna be
yeah so what i'm hearing from you maya
is and let me know if this is i step out
of line okay
how are you feeling right now feeling
okay i'm fine okay yeah
what i'm hearing is that if you didn't
take advantage of this opportunity it
would all come crumbling down
all yeah i guess
i'm trying to think of what wouldn't but
yeah i don't really know
right so it's interesting because you
can think about all the things that
would come crumbling down even though if
we're if we're logical about it like
you're not going to get flattened by any
of this stuff like you can miss
opportunities things will go
not your way and you're going to do fine
yeah do you believe that about yourself
yeah that would be fine yeah kill myself
so that's not what well i'm not gonna
die
how else wouldn't i be fine i would i'd
be alive like
but i would i probably wouldn't be happy
okay
that was not what i was expecting to
hear
oh but by fine i meant that i think your
non-profit would continue to do well
and you would continue to grow i thought
you meant
like sorry i'm interrupting you a lot
nope no
i i appreciate it please please
interrupt what were you gonna say i
thought you meant if the non-profit
didn't work
and like my opportunity being like me
streaming and doing the non-profit
like if i had to like stop streaming for
whatever reason yeah and obvious dad
like that's what i thought you're
talking about
yeah so i know this sounds weird i think
you'd do fine if that happened
because what i'm putting what i'm the
reason i make that assessment is because
i think your commitment to
this mission is so resilient
that you would find a way to make a
difference
and if it wasn't this opportunity that
you're taking advantage of you'd
keep on floating around the space and
because you are
productive and because you are brilliant
and gifted and all of those other things
that you would find a way to move
forward
what do you think about that that's
probably true
i'm not sure that it would be in the
well probably would be in the same
industry i can't imagine
doing a different one but yeah i'd
probably find something else
to do but i can understand
that in your mind you may not
remember that all the time
yeah i mean i don't think about it but
what do you think about
just in general like when it comes to
not seizing opportunities
um
i don't know just like slowing down
like things with elvis like if i don't
seize an opportunity with alves like is
that going to slow down
the the development of the nonprofit and
like how fast i can get to doing
collaborations and how many ambassadors
we acquire
um and then for myself it's more like
money
do you want to slow down no
can you afford to slow down
um yeah really probably
yeah i think so um obviously it's
supposed to be a three-year plan i mean
it would be completely reasonable if it
took me three years to
to build out the facility that i'm
building um
but it doesn't sound like you can afford
to slow down
well not to me but in reality yeah
i could well we're talking to you okay
so so so let's talk about you know
forget about reality because who cares
about that okay for sure
why can't you slow down
because the more sponsors i do the
faster i make my money back
um and then the faster alves
develops the faster i have a
successfully running
non-profit that i'm really proud of
that's making an actual difference
right now it's just all temporary what's
the rush probably the like
amount of time that i feel like i have
to
make the difference like how long i'm
going to be streaming
or so i think we come back to the sand
and the hourglasses running out
mm-hmm and so this is where
hey how's this conversation going for
you by the way
good okay makes sense yeah yeah so
let me ask you something have you has
the sand and the hourglass run out for
you before
have you missed an opportunity that you
can never get back
i don't think so i can't think of
anything i mean maybe
maybe something small but no like big
life so nothing pops into your head when
i ask that question
no
it feels to me my when i'm talking to
you
that you're like you know the image that
i get in my mind is like a surfer who's
riding a really high wave that's going
to crash at some point
oh that's great to hear so
does that image resonate with you at all
um
i guess yeah it does kind of feel like a
peak
yeah yeah yeah yeah
but i don't i mean i don't anticipate a
crash anytime soon
sure but eventually like for all
streamers
not all streamers can't speak for all
streamers but there's like a
we have this crazy opportunity while
we're this age you know we're streaming
and
you peek in viewership at some point you
just do you know like you get to a point
where you're like as big as you're gonna
be
you may get followers but like you'll
end up decreasing in viewership
eventually
um so there is like i don't know there's
there's a peak somewhere um and i do
feel like with the start of all this and
once elvis is running and i'm doing all
that content like
yeah like how do you
i don't know like how do you achieve
higher than that i don't know
it's kind of like uh this is a bad
example and i'm sure
he's completely fine but there was some
kid i don't even remember his name
that won that fortnight world cup or
something at age like 14 or something
15 was it yeah yeah
um when he did that my first thought was
like damn
if he's gonna be doing competitive
esports for the rest of his life and
fortnite is his game like
how is he ever gonna feel like he's
beat himself again i don't mean beat
himself like you know
like how can he ever top that right
yeah yeah so you said it feels like
you're at the peak
yeah well not right now i'm like
up there though i'm like a building
building up there
yeah i mean where do we go once we hit
the top of the peak
i don't know um i'll need to find other
things that i think are really
fulfilling and
and uh productive like i
for matt like he has otk ms giff
um has otk and he's gonna like continue
doing business
after he decides to not stream so much
anymore um
and so that'll be really fulfilling for
him and he'll take all of his experience
into there so he'll continue being
really successful
for me it's hard because my goal is
conservation education you know like i
want to teach as many people as possible
so the idea of going from streaming and
doing it on stream to like
tens of thousands to going to like if i
quit streaming and i go to
classrooms or something and teach kids
it'll just feel like less of an
impact because of like what i want to do
you know but i guess i could consult or
something and teach people about digital
conservation education that that might
be fulfilling
but not as fulfilling is actually doing
it maybe it would i don't know
so maya i'm hearing a lot of different
stuff
okay okay so here's what i'm hearing
all right now you do a really good job
of
sharing a statement or a feeling and
then putting a lot of context or
counterpoints around that
if you notice that you do that so like
for example you were like it
it feels like i met i asked you about
the surfer analogy and then you said
i feel like i'm at the peak and then if
i ask you do you feel like you're at the
peak and then you say not yet and then
you kind of add some context to know i
could do this and i could do this
so i think you have to be a little bit
careful in your mind because i think a
lot of your toxic
productivity the toxicity is coming from
that instinctual
response and then you do all of these
things to kind of like
wrap around it and kind of like
you know what i mean yeah yeah right so
just be careful about that because i
think if you don't
justifying your toxic productivity or
reassuring yourself
is not the same as like fixing the root
issue of like why you feel
a particular way so here's what i'm
hearing the first is that you carved out
your niche
right you were not the star student but
you found this thing in which you could
be a star it's a
plus you're 22 you're doing great you're
growing it's a lot of fun you're
genuinely dedicated
i absolutely see that and then there's
also like this kind of
tricky thing right because there's the
sand and the hourglass is running out
like you need to be learning more you
should be doing better it's got to be
better better better
we haven't really quite talked about
this
but i i get the sense that
you're both confident in yourself and
you have the echoes of not being
confident in yourself left over
so it's sort of like this idea where
like until i make it to a certain level
then i can rest easy we haven't quite
talked about that yet
but i would venture if we continue to
talk we would
eventually uncover this sort of idea
that once i
get to this point then i can relax do
you have that kind of thinking in your
mind
what does that point look like i have no
idea
yeah i haven't hit it yet i don't know
what it looks like
yeah so that's but you know what i mean
when i say like
there's a part of your mind that says
you can relax once everything gets
settled
yeah like once you're sure that it'll
last once the sand in the hourglass is
no longer running out
right once the house of cards gets you
know slathered and concrete and becomes
stable
so i think that's tricky because you
know i it
very insightful maya so i ask you what
does that look like and you're like i
have no idea and you never will
so this is the problem with toxic
productivity is like
even if i get to this peak i want to be
climbing i want to be growing i need to
be doing better because i don't quite
have 100
faith in myself and
then you're going to find another peak
to climb you can start doing consulting
you can do this you can do this it'll
never end
you can always find some way to grow
you can push yourself to be better and
learn more and stuff like that but as
long as like
but that's just the sand and the
hourglass is going to continue
like you're always going to feel like oh
now i have this consulting opportunity
and like someone else on tiktok is doing
conservation so like
my time has passed and there is another
22 year old and i'm haggard and old at
the age of 24.
right you know yeah and then unless i
start consulting then that person's
gonna do the consulting and then i
i will have you know there's new forms
of social media and the platform is
different
that kind of thinking can propagate
forever
so what do you think we do about this
i don't know i've uh
yet to figure it out i don't know i i
can't remember when i wasn't
i kind of think of like when i wasn't
like this because it definitely wasn't
in high school
um you definitely weren't like this in
high school or you were like
i was i was like this in high school and
i i was like this in middle school as
well
um i think at least since sixth grade um
so i don't know how to fix that
what were you like before the sixth
grade
um
[Music]
i don't know how to describe myself i
mean i
spent a lot of time outside um with at
the barn with my horse and
uh
had a lot of playdates and like showing
people the animals and whatever but
there was never like a
uh i need to get good at something
i just actually that's not true no it
goes further back because i did uh
figure skating um and felt really
competitive in that
so and i was like oh my gosh i was
little
before fourth grade
so then even further back
before that i don't know then i just
existed as like a child
i think i had aspirations i think i was
just like
trying things yeah so let me ask you
something what would it feel like
to relax
my first thought was stressful which is
terrible
it doesn't make sense you shouldn't feel
that way maya
right um
yeah no i don't know i think i just get
stressed out i think
uh
i don't feel like a waste of time yeah
so
what is it like to waste time how does
that
feel to you the thought of wasting time
stressful it like makes me itch okay so
stress is an umbrella term okay right
so like what what can you tell me more
about what would be stressful about you
taking a day off falling behind
and then having more to do the next day
or
not making money that day or not i don't
know
not talking to who i was supposed to
talk to that day or like letting people
down by not
doing everything talking to everybody um
yeah are you behind now
yeah a little bit not a lot
really yeah oh i mean in terms of like
tasks yeah how about
spiritually do you feel like you're
behind in life
no i don't think so either
have you been behind in life before
yeah um when i was
i my previous relationship i dated a guy
for five years and we started dating
when i was
15 um and then up through college
uh and i feel like we both kind of
paused
in that relationship you know which is
like kind of normal um so i do feel like
i was behind
there and then after that i did like
a lot of therapy um and
had like a year and some change of being
single and whatever and
um grown a lot since then but i was
yeah i felt like i was stunted back then
how did it feel to be stunted i didn't
know i was stunted so
um so at the time
it was just like how it was and then
after it was like damn
that's embarrassing
so i'm hearing another part of your
toxic productivity which is you're never
gonna fall behind again
yeah maybe right so you've been there
before
and you may not have noted at the time
but i think you knew it at the time
you understood on some level
that this was not good for sure and you
just didn't know any different back then
right but now that you know different i
think part of where i hear your
desperation coming from
is like never again
and i'm sort of hearing it i'm going to
connect some dots
here you let me know if these are fair
or unfair but like
i get the sense like you know this
desperation this wave crashing this like
there's just a lot of like imagery that
maybe i'm inflating so you got to let me
know you got to set me straight okay
if i'm being too dank but um
you know i i i get a lot of like weird
things smile like so i'm getting a
feeling of like fear i'm getting a fear
of
it's weird because i think these things
are co-exist
with confidence so like i'm getting some
sense of like it's going to come
crumbling down this is my a
plus i have to make it work you know i'm
actually i'm crushing those noobs who
are in
like applying to med school right now
because i'm out actually making the
world
a better place and and i can hold my
head up high
because i have an a plus and this is my
niche
and and there's all that kind of stuff
and like if that all comes like
crumbling down
because what i hear is really like a
desperation that it's all going to come
crumbling down
then who am i going to be i'm going to
be back to being stuck i'm going to back
to be
behind and this is where you assure me
that you're not going to kill yourself
but it's sort of it's interesting right
because it's like it's that's the
reassurance it sort of implies that
there's not
there's nothing in the middle yeah right
there's like where you are
now and there's no gray zone between
like don't worry i won't kill myself
and i'm crushing it and started a
non-profit and i'm accomplishing
so like this is a crazy thing right i
ask you are you behind and you're like
a little bit and then it's like you've
got a three-year plan which is you're
accomplishing in three months
so that's drastically ahead and
logically
if you were your friend you would say
maya you can afford to slow down you've
got
you know you've got about 33 months that
you're ahead
but that logical part like i don't think
you can
i think it's terrifying like stressful
is a good word
like what would it be like
to take a day off
i i just feel like i would be falling
behind if i did
um we'll see because i'm supposed to so
my birthday is on the 24th and
i want to it's kind of weird dumb
i just like want to go to a hotel that's
not far away because i don't want to be
too far away from the nonprofit and the
animals in case anything happens like i
don't want to actually travel
but i just want to sit in a hotel
because then i feel like i have an
excuse to not be on my pc and to not be
working
um but even then i guarantee i'm still
going to be
doing emails like on my phone and like
trying to be productive so
yeah i don't know if i actually had to
sit there and relax
without my phone or without like the
ability to work
i just don't think i would like it i
think i would panic yep
and what would your mind produce for you
in those moments
what kind of thoughts would you have
um
[Music]
well if it was my choice then it would
be guilt
if i was like forced into the situation
then i'd just be like
scared what would you feel guilty about
um not taking
like having a full day like that many
hours to do
things and to catch up on things and to
get ahead on things and not doing it
what's wrong with not getting ahead on
things
i leave more for myself the next day and
then the next day and the next day and
then it piles up and then i lose my mind
okay why do you have to do so much
because i have the opportunity now
yeah why did you start laughing there
it's like a circle
circuit yeah i have a full circle thing
yeah so this is where i think
my i know it sounds you're gonna hold on
can i think for a second
maya do you wanna do you do you want to
be
no longer toxically productive
i don't know i to be honest like i
cannot imagine myself
not moving as fast as i do okay i would
just feel bad about myself i feel like i
could do better
yep so the reason i because i i think
that this
this so the next the rest of this
conversation is useless
because because like i think it starts
with do you want to change
i wish i do wish that i could relax i
in college i was stre
we talked about this at the very
beginning it was like stress but it was
bad stress
because i didn't care about what i was
doing but in college i could go out i
would go out during golden hour and sit
there and just like watch
you know and really enjoyed that and
like
could soak it in whatever i would do art
projects just for fun like i would paint
stuff and
and whatever because all i had to do was
an assignment you know and then turn it
in and once i got done with if i did if
i wasn't done with all that i was like
i could not relax but once i was done
and i felt caught up with it i didn't
feel the need to excel past that
um so i would just sit
and chill and like soak in stuff i wish
that i could do that
now but now that i have
all the autonomy and i have like i know
what i have to do to get ahead
um i just feel like i constantly have to
be doing that does that make any sense
makes perfect sense okay yeah so i think
that
being in charge you know it's
interesting so when i was in residency
we work like 80 hours a week right and
that's a lot that's
so much and so then people would say
like oh like after you're done with
residency like you get to relax
right like you only have to work 60
hours a week and then i sort of did that
for a while and then i became my own
boss
and then it was like wow like if i don't
do this thing
it doesn't get done the earlier it gets
done
the better it is for everyone and the
only bottleneck to making the world a
better place
is my laziness
and so i better get up off my ass
because i can do all of these things i'm
the only one that can do them
and if they if i don't do them they
don't get done right
yeah that that part resonates yeah
so i i think i think it comes down to
consequences which is like what happens
if that stuff doesn't get done
um i mean for me
it's just like there are less people
learning about conservation and less
good is happening
for the planet um there's like
that group of people that's not going to
hear about not using this rodenticide
you know and they're going to use it and
then animals are going to die
um yeah so you have you have a real
op combo there because i think you have
your toxic productivity sand and the
hourglass is running out a touch of
imposter syndrome it'll all end and
in shambles the wave will crash that
part of your mind
then finds a very interesting poster
child
which is make the world a better place
and the two of those when combined
are very very difficult to argue against
but be careful because which one really
is it
right which one comes first is it the
feeling of the sand and the hourglass or
like you like relentlessly like
why do you sleep maya imagine how many
animals are dying
every hour you sleep i've actually
yeah i've struggled sleeping before
because of that
but that's because i'm also a wildlife
rehabilitator so
we have babies that we have to feed
throughout the night and stuff like that
and
yeah there there are nights where i'm
just like i cannot go to sleep that's
selfish
um but
which one is it more i mean i would
obviously like to say that it's
uh my drive to make the world better but
i'm honestly not sure
um i don't know which one
is more i would say i would say if i had
you know this is
you have to correct me but and i know
you don't know now but i i've seen this
a lot where i think toxic productivity
comes from like
a genuine mission that gets hijacked
by like a psychological need so there is
like a fear
you know and it's not and this is the
tricky thing is because i i can see that
you're confident in yourself like i can
see that you recognize objectively
that you have accomplished a lot and
that also makes things so much more
terrifying because like now you've built
up like it's this grand experiment where
you've borrowed money and it's happening
and it's real and there's stuff on
social media so you like can't
no take backs now you have ambassadors
that are relying on you
of people that are relying on you you
have you know all kinds of things that
are depending on you
so onward and upward and no looking back
and no slowing down
and if all we have to sacrifice is maya
so be it yeah i guess
so i want you to i think it starts with
first of all you you know whether you
want to slow down
right because i i don't think you do but
what i will tell you is that
i don't i know this sounds absolutely
crazy but i don't think you relaxing
will actually decrease your productivity
at all
well that's good because i don't want it
to
i know so this is sort of giving in to
it
but in my work of like so i do a lot of
work on optimizing performance
so case in point i work with some like
esports teams for example
and i don't know if you know this but
esports teams grind a lot
right grind it it took me months
to convince i do this with all the
esports teams i work with some of them
never get it
it took me months to explain to them
that playing 12 hours a day of pubs
does not actually make you better at the
game at your skill level
and there's this relentless sense that
you just have to grind grind
grind grime grind and the more you do
the better it is
right but i i think that
i know it sounds weird but i think that
like you can accomplish just as much
because i just don't think human beings
are you know optimally productive once
they cross a particular threshold
i think that doing things like re
relaxing is actually going to like boost
your productivity you know there are
studies that are done on
you know working five days a week versus
four days a week and people get the same
amount of stuff done
what do you think about that
i think it makes sense to me
but it's also like when i think about my
day-to-day and
what i want to do to be more productive
it's like if i meet this contractor
at my property today the floors will get
done today that means that the site is
more developed like if i call this like
you know dumpster roll off we'll get a
dumpster today so we can clean more
stuff out which makes
like which pushes pushes us further
along but the more that i do in a day
the farther we get you know i'm with you
a hundred percent
how does your understanding string
theory help your emu
oh my god it doesn't at all i i don't
know why
like i also don't know why i thought
that i could under i mean obviously i
don't understand that you can't
understand string theory without like
my physics knowledge is horrible um but
i was just like
i should know at least what this is
where does that come from why should you
know what that is
i don't know i guess i just don't feel
like i'm oh i just don't feel like i'm
competent enough like i feel like i
should know
like if someone asks me i'd just be like
i don't know and i don't want to feel
stupid
so i don't want to not know like i just
want to know everything
which is completely unrealistic but
see there you there you go again sharing
a feeling and then what do you do
uh it's not really qualifying is it um
like no it's good close enough
qualifying right right like you you
you you play you play tennis with
yourself you hit the ball across the net
and then you run over to the other side
and you hit it back
yeah yeah so why i think if you want
like i know this sounds kind of weird
but if you want to like
improve in this aspect you got to stop
running over to the other side of the
net
[Music]
so
i know this sounds kind of weird but do
you feel
stupid oh all the time yeah but that's
not new
i just did it again sorry continue
can you tell me about that
um
where when did i start feeling stupid
probably in
about sixth grade uh when no fourth
grade when we started
being accepted into advanced math
courses that's probably where it started
and oh and then in sixth grade i
couldn't pass my time stables for [ __ ] i
was like damn
i'm dumb as hell i probably started
there
and then uh i don't know same thing
through high school
just other people achieving more and
then
now uh just the people that i have on my
podcast
i have i mean i have the platform you
know and i'm
pretty good at like being a bridge
between
science and like the public you know
that's why i do the podcast and i have a
role there but i also
constantly feel like i'm not qualified
to be talking to the people that i talk
to and they know so much more than me
um and i feel dumb a lot of times when
i'm talking to them because they'll be
talking about something and i'm like i
don't know what that is or i don't know
what that means
and i know it's not my place to be the
scientist i'm literally not the
scientist on the podcast but
yeah okay
can i think for a second
so what do you do if you feel dumb
what's the answer
what do you mean like what do i so you
feel dumb all the time
how do you deal with that learn more
how's that working for you i still feel
dumb
i mean you can't learn everything
interesting right
yeah listening to the string theory book
just made me feel more stupid so
but nevermind
okay so let me ask you something every
time you catch yourself doing the
qualifier do you feel stupid there
i don't feel stupid i feel annoyed
okay that i didn't think about it before
i started it yep so that's sort of
that's sort of that feels the same okay
yeah dumb
right i'm not trying to put words into
your mouth but you gotta you gotta tell
me
right so we gotta be careful about that
because like inadvertently you're
actually pulling me into a situation
where i may make you feel stupid
oh you're fine i'll tell you
okay so let's just pause for a second
and think about this so if you feel dumb
and you you try to fix that by learning
right like when we feel a certain way
about ourselves we like
make efforts in the real world to change
it
and how effective is that
i i mean it depends i don't know um i'm
thinking like if it's like a very
specific topic
and you think that you're dumb in the
topic and then you learn about it then i
would feel no longer dumb
okay so how long have you felt dumb
at least fourth grade okay maybe maybe
before how
often do you feel dumb
um maybe like
every other day okay i don't i don't
think it's
daily but it's it may be okay maybe
daily so
and how much have you learned between
fourth grade and now
a lot absolutely so how do you
understand that
how do you understand the relationship
between learning a lot and feeling dumb
what can we conclude that learning more
doesn't make me feel not
dumb because i can't learn everything
yeah so then then the
tricky issue becomes what do we do with
the feeling of dumbness
i don't know do you want that to change
um wait i have to think about that
um do i want that to change
i it's my primary motivator to learn
i think um so
i don't know good answer i wanna
if i wanna not feel dumb i mean there's
times where i don't like feeling dumb
sure i hate feeling dumb on stream but
so we get we get to an interesting issue
here okay maya so i'm gonna
highlight this again i think a lot of
like whether you want to change or not a
lot of this is not
about how you change or failing to
change it's about wanting to change
because if i could give you a pill that
would make you no longer feel dumb would
you take it
no i think i'd be a dick if i took that
i don't want to be like a knower i don't
want to be a person that just like
thinks that they know everything
okay if i could take away the feeling of
being dumb
uh then yeah now that'd probably be good
i think i don't know
i don't know i feel like i don't know if
i need to feel dumb to
have the motivation to learn things
there we go right so now we get to
another really really important
principle
which is a lot of the suffering caused
by our mind is adaptive and helps us we
become dependent on it
because look at how far you've come
because you felt
dumb seriously i'm not kidding that's
not a joke
yeah i get it right because it's like
look at how inadequate you felt in the
fourth grade
right because it's kind of interesting
because you say that i wasn't
in any advanced classes like that
doesn't mean you're dumb it just means
you're normal
right right and and
even then it's like and so like this has
been your driving force to like
you know carve out your niche get an a
plus in horsemanship
when my noob friends are like still in
school with their head between books
like i'm gonna be out there like
saving the world and doing endoscopies
on emu's
[ __ ] i'm gonna be someone
yeah right and you are someone and
you've become someone
and yet you carry the feeling of dumb
with you and i think this is all like
feels related to me because it's sort of
like
i get the sense that if you miss out on
on an opportunity you don't have faith
in yourself to be able to recover
that like this is the chance right and
if i miss this opportunity and miss this
opportunity like everything is going to
come crumbling down like you'll
only feel that way if you don't have
faith in yourself to adapt to
circumstances and find a way forward
which i
i think you're gonna do fine like i
think that everything could come
crashing down around you i think you'd
be fine
it'd be hard psychologically but i think
that your actual commitment to your
mission
will find a way for you to make a
difference in the world
but i think what this is going to be
terrifying
but i think you have to be okay with
being dumb
what do you think about that
yeah i mean it's true i uh
i have that in i don't know how to make
this not a tangent
uh make it a tangent tangents are great
okay uh so in
when you work with animals there's one
of the things that i say all the time i
use the word nowhere as i feel like
there's learners and there's knowers
you know and for some reason in the
animal industry it's
super prominent like who's a knower and
who's a learner
uh you just get people that have been in
it for 20 years 30 years 40 years
whatever and then you have these new
people or
younger people that are just really
bright-eyed and really passionate and
are just learners and they want to learn
everything
and they end up getting shut down by the
knowers and then those kids burn out
i've seen it since i've started working
in animals
i've seen so many burnouts at every
single facility that i've worked at i've
seen a burnout
um and so when i'm leading people at the
rehab center because i'm on the board of
directors at the rehab center so i do
volunteers and stuff like that and i
always tell them like you're don't ever
feel dumb you know like it's
asking as many questions as you want you
know like we're all dumb like we don't
know what we're doing we're
like i'm still learning all the time i
still have to call people all the time
and ask questions about these birds
because i don't know this and i don't
know this
like i preach that i'm really annoying
about it annoying it's not the right
word but i like
hammer it in you know it's the same
thing at my facility
um i i tell people who are who are
helping at my facility like you
like none of us know what we're doing so
like ask as many questions you want
um that's why i didn't want to make it
to tangent because i forgot what your
actual question was
i think it was perfect okay so trust in
in the connections that your neurons
make
so what i'm hearing from you is that
so there's there's a certain maya who's
actually
confident in herself and is therefore
okay being dumb
and then there's another maya who's not
because she actually doesn't believe in
herself so she has to be smart
true
yeah and then we kind of come back to
like which one do you want to be
um the first one okay ideally so
this is this is good because i think
we've we've this is
uh i've asked you a couple of times if
you want certain things do you want to
be less toxically productive you said no
you know do you do you want to be
stupid you said yes i want to feel dumb
because it's what drives me forward
and i think now we've hit a point where
like we can get on the same page about
like what you
want which is to recognize that actually
like
feeling dumb is completely independent
from the acquisition of knowledge
and that actually if we really pay
attention
most of your growth has come out of
places where you sort of
admit your ignorance as opposed to try
to fix it
right like there's a difference between
learning to not feel dumb
and like learning for the sake of like
wanting to understand something
i think the real challenge maya for you
is that you have so many different
conflicting things that co-exist that
you can be proud of yourself you know
you have your niche
you know you're good at what you do you
know that you're making an impact you
know that
every time you sort of support a learner
in the face of knowers
you're actually having a profound
downstream effect on conservation
right so and this is where i think like
frankly you got to let go of all of this
like i need to do it now otherwise like
you know
dogs won't be able to eat dinner tonight
because i i think is someone who's just
a little bit older and i got to play the
i'm older card on you now which is a
card that i generally hate playing but
i'm gonna i'm gonna play at this once
we'll see how you receive it okay if
it works but i i think my the amount of
impact that you're having
it's arrogant for you to think that
you know what impact that you're having
and that's
like cutting back a little bit is gonna
have such a profound impact on the world
like you just don't know
right like you have you have no idea how
much these little conversations that you
have when you're volunteering with
someone who's like excited about
conservation like
that can have such a huge impact on
thousands or tens of thousands or
hundreds of thousands of animals lives
right so how is the i'm older so i know
better card playing with you
what do you think about that and i think
at the end of the day i mean
i i think it's okay to be dumb it's okay
to be inexperienced and it's
everything's not going to come falling
apart around you
what do you think about that
it makes no sense i think that it is
fine for everybody except for me
because i like because i'm running my
own non-profit so i feel like i need to
be the person that knows you know nope
um but yes sir so so i think
do you think if i made that statement to
you before you launched your non-profit
you would have said something else
before i was started streaming i would
have agreed with you i think
but since you've started streaming it's
you no longer agree
so that's interesting right so i think
you have to pay attention because your
mind will come up with any justification
the justification will change
and and so that's okay so you know
what's it like to be the person who
can't slow down
i don't know i'm proud of it and it's
it's a lot
i do feel like there's a lot of things
that i'm missing i mean i still hang out
with my friends and whatever
but i
am not i feel like i still could be
living like a college kid and just like
doing whatever i want and like enjoying
my life
but i am i am enjoying my life but i'm
not
chilling you know and i never will be
ever again i don't think well it sounds
like you can't really afford to live a
college life
right i mean it sounds like the work
that you're doing is more important
yeah yeah so that's a
i don't know it's a good and a bad thing
i mean but net positive right
yeah not positive so you
what choice do you really have
no i mean i'm not going to change it i
guess this is like
yeah i don't know
yeah now i feel like i've just wasted
your time
because we just came back to i'm not
changing anything
so what's the point i don't know i
yeah i don't know do you think this is a
waste of time
no i got a lot of good things from it
but it's also not like i'm not leaving
with like a big like i'm gonna do this
this this
and make this change and then be better
like
it's much more abstract than that which
is good
but i i think that's what you like go
for
you go for different things i think you
probably don't care or not not that you
don't care but you're like
i don't think that you thought it was a
waste of time why don't
why wouldn't i why do i why do you think
i don't think this is a waste of time
well one because you're polite and two
um like you wouldn't be like yeah why
you just wasted my time
um but no we talked about some cool
stuff i made some cool connections
um in here and
i think i felt more i felt bad about the
toxic productivity thing
more than anything else until now i
don't
love it but i also realize that it's
helped me a lot instead of just being
like why am i like this
so that's a good thing
do you think that i want you to change
no
i don't know do you
let me think about that for a second
okay
i was trying to help you change
um but it took me a little while to
realize that you
don't want to change
and so that's okay
i'm not disappointed in that and i think
that one of the most important steps
that we can take
because you came in and you said this
thing is bad
and now we're saying this thing is good
no i still think it's bad
but i also think it's good now and
before i didn't think it was good at all
okay so
and that's a win
yeah okay so so here's what i'll share
with you maya i think that
um i know it sounds weird but you came
in thinking that toxic productivity is
bad and now you think that toxic
productivity is good
and i think that's a win too okay do you
and there's a simple reason for that
which is
you can come in and say i want to change
and then i can try to help you change
and what are you going to do
when i try to help you change
if we were actually like if we were if
you were like my therapist or something
we're doing this weekly and you're like
you got to do like you got to relax you
got to i'd just be frustrated
yeah i'd be like why are you telling me
to not do as many things as i want to do
yep right so so this is where like you
came here and you said toxic
productivity is bad
and then for a little while we played
the game of okay let's see if we can get
you to change and i think we came to a
very important revelation
because that toxic productivity is bad
but it also is good it comes with a
price it's double-edged sword
you know it's like eating a spicy curry
like it's good going down but it ain't
gonna be pleasant coming out
you know it's like you gotta you gotta
pay the price right
yeah and um or in the case of the emu
like oh that ring looks so shiny it's
gonna be so tasty
it's gonna help me digest so i i i think
oddly enough maya so like the first step
is being aware of like
what something does for you right
because i think if i tried to make you
change
then you would have just pushed back
over and over and over again
so i do think it's actually a success
and this is for everyone out there who's
listening like a lot of times
we have a behavior that we think
should change and we play the friend
game with ourselves
right and we're like oh what would i
tell my friend and i'd tell them this
but if you have a behavior that you
would tell a friend something and you
don't listen to it at all
you don't you know that's the game that
you lose all the time
that's a sign that you really need to
understand like what your motivations
are
because until you like understand that
you actually don't want it to change
it's never going to change interestingly
enough
knowing that you don't want it to change
is actually a step forward
it's better than pretending you want it
to change yeah and not actually want to
get to change
[Music]
and i i know it sounds crazy but i think
it's going to be easier for you to relax
when you go to the hotel room
yeah i think you're right
i'm very confused on why but i i do
agree with you
right so i i think it's so i think just
understand that you're not really ready
to change your toxic productivity
quite yet and that's okay that there's a
lot writing on there that you still have
a lot to prove
so be it you're not quite a hundred
percent confident in yourself
even though you clearly know that you
have a lot to be proud of
that while you are undereducated
compared to all of these experts these
experts are coming onto your podcast
and you clearly have something to offer
the world and you're really good at
organizing and putting all the stuff i
think you know all these things about
yourself
and coexisting with that is this sort of
like
i'm dumb everything is going to come
falling apart i'm going to peak
eventually
the platform will be destroyed and then
i don't know who i'm going to be don't
worry dr k i won't kill myself but like
i'm going to be in nothing
that is holding on to life for an
unclear reason
and that both of those things can
coexist like that's totally cool we'll
take both
of them what do you think about that
yeah i think that makes sense i don't
have very much to say about it but i do
like i i am understanding what you're
saying yeah
but if i elaborated i'd just be
repeating back what you said so
i get the sense that we're wrapping up
yeah i don't know i don't have other
things to to talk about
really um
yeah i mean is there something that you
want to discuss no no i it's just i
i think i think um i sort of signaled
i got the sense that we had reached a
good stopping point when you said
something like this has been a waste of
your time
honestly i'm also looking at the time
because they told me that you have a
commitment at
for my time so i was also like
ah or yeah i mean that's that's my
commitment to manage you don't have to
worry about it yeah
but um you know good luck with your
stuff i mean do you want to tell us like
is there somewhere that we can
go to learn more about your work or
anything like that
yeah um in my chat you can do command
alveos if you want um it's
a-l-v-e-u-s sanctuary on all platforms
so we do have a twitch channel we
haven't done anything on it um but
twitter instagram tick-tock
how did you come up with the name it's a
not a direct translation but it's
reservoir in latin
and my thing on my podcast is always
saying that switches on tapped reservoir
for doing good so that's cool
yeah well thank you very much for coming
on do you have any questions for me i
don't mean to boot you or anything but
i sort of feel like we're at a good
stopping point and we've learned
something today and that it may be a
little bit easier for you to relax
yeah um i don't think so i don't think i
have any questions
i do i do feel bad i feel like i i feel
like i was like
i just like walled you like i feel like
you're trying to help and i was just
like
i got it like i'm good i'm just gonna
keep doing what i'm doing but i don't
know i need to think about it more
offstream probably i i think it's okay
to do that
okay i'm not do you get the sense that
i'm disappointed or frustrated with you
no okay yeah i i i think you actually
did a good job of pointing out sometimes
people like oh my god dr k
i'm gonna change everything about my
life and fix me right
no that's not actually how change
happens and i think sometimes we
actually do a disservice because that's
what we
make it seem like change is like i think
you actually
illustrated how change really is
way more than some of our more like
histrionic streams right because there's
a lot of resistance it's a slow process
that like you come in pretending that
you want to change and you actually
don't
and part of that i think the reason that
you're more willing to
give up toxic productivity now is like
it's easy it's
it's hard to give up that which you
don't know has value
because what you really have to do maya
is sacrifice
your productivity you have to give
something up to relax
and i don't think you're ready to make
that sacrifice yet
no which is fine
okay sweet good luck and make the world
a better place
all right thank you so much i appreciate
it you're welcome bye all right i'll
talk to you
okay
sneaky sneaky